>> James Halliday: So
I talked a little bit about flags.
These are how you can
configure the RegEx engine.
So, these are the ones,
I think I don't really use any
other flags aside from these.
Use the first two all the time and
the second two pretty rarely.
So, if you know ing, I'd say you're
pretty set for the most part.
In mns,
you're kind of like rather more obscure.
Okay, so
the main thing that you need to know
when dealing with RegEx is these things
which are called meta characters.
So these characters that are kind of,
some of them are operated a bit
like wild cards like the dot.
Other are called quantifiers.
So here's an example of what how
the other dot.characters works.
So dot means any character.
So you can do things like,
if we have the input, go hello beep boop,
then we can replace any character
that comes between a b and a p, so
any two characters,
dot dot with something else.
>> James Halliday: So
if we don't pass in g,
that's going to replace the first
instance which should be beep.
So it says, hello whatever boop, but
if we put a g at the end said is
going to replace every occurrence.
So we get hello, whatever, whatever.
>> James Halliday: The next thing we
can cover, is this idea of quantifiers.
So quantifiers are a way of specifying
how many times something should appear.
Question mark is a 0 or 1 times,
a star means 0 or many times, and
a plus means one or many times.
And there are other ways of doing
quantifiers with curly brackets.
I don't think I put them in the notes,
but I'll cover them as well.
So here's just some example
that you can try about,
I can explain what each one of these does.
So if we have this string,
dog and doge, then we wanna match
everything that is dog, and it may or
may not have an e at the end.
So you can use sed -r here to not
have to put that back slash or
a dash capital e I guess on Mac.
And this will match anything that's dog or
doge, cuz the e can appear 0, or 1 time.
Similarly you can match things like here
the e can appear has 0 or more times.
So might have no e's like
you might just have BP or
you might have a lot of e's like this or
you have 2 or 1 e.
It's all going to match and
be replaced by a beep.
So that works, and then plus is 1 or
more time that means BP
is not going to match.
But bep and beeeep will match, because
there has to be at least one occurrence
for the plus quantifier to match.
>> Speaker 2: Question.
>> James Halliday: Yeah.
Is that s slash, the beginning of that
string, is that technically a flag where
you would be able to do m
slash if it was a multi-way?
>> Speaker 2: For the trailing bit,
the part with the g?
>> James Halliday: No,
the part with the s.
>> Speaker 2: No, this is specific
to said and curl, and vim as well,
where this just means that we're
performing a substitution.
>> James Halliday: Got it, a substitution.
>> Speaker 2: Yes, so you don't do
that in, the flag goes on the end.
>> James Halliday: Got it,
You could do gm the you multiflag.
>> Speaker 2: Yes you could do gm and like
also the order of the flag doesn't matter
at all so there is i, g, m, and s more
depending on what engine you are using.
Okay, so why don't we just if you
wanna try around the rejects.md files
should be in the same ripple if you wanna
like pull up some of these examples and
while all of you do that I'm just gonna
fiddle around on the command line for
some stuff that you can just
see what I'm up to if you like.
And if you have any questions online or
in person, then just ask them.
>> Speaker 2: So
if you find any good files or
anything else that you would like
to like do some processing on,
column formats are good for
playing around with RegEx.
I'll see if I have any
in my data directory.
>> Speaker 2: The CSV
files are pretty good.
Sweet, I do have one, landsat.csv.
>> Speaker 2: It's a very big file.
>> Speaker 2: Probably not the best
to use as an example though.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] Or
The CAT by Herman Melville.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: If you want to experiment
with a certain number of characters,
you can use braces for your quantifier.
So if I want between 2 and
4, I can do 2, 4.
Or if you want more than 4,
or more than 2,
you can just leave off the remaining one.
So that will match plus g.
>> Speaker 2: Wait, sed right needs to
be put into enhanced mode to do that.
>> Speaker 2: Cool, Dashy works on Linux,
so I'm gonna use that from now on.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Right, so see in this case,
it's gonna match for
because RegEx will try to expand
out to be the longest
sequence that it can.
Which is called the greediness of the
RegEx, there's also non-greedy RegExes,
which are kind of an enhanced thing.
>> Speaker 2: So it's gonna match 4 and 4,
and then there's gonna be
a left over o in this case.
So that's why there's a o
in the output right here.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, so with grep and
sed unless you pass in -E,
these commands are going
to require that you escape
the meta characters except for
star for reasons.
So, probably it's good to just use
capital E all the time I would say,
unless you wanna keep in your head which
meta characters you have to escape
which is not very useful information